[Music]
not so long ago astronomers discovered a
planet that got the name of ucf
1.01
this world is about 33 light years away
from earth
this makes the planet our next door
neighbor in the cosmic scheme of things
of course
honestly speaking the space body is only
a planet candidate
because astronomers haven't measured its
mass yet but they have high hopes
the wannabe planet is very different
from our earth
just 1.7 million miles away from its
star
it completes its orbit in a day and a
half
it's a scorching deserted world with the
temperatures at the surface
rising up to a thousand degrees even
more astounding the entire planet is
likely to be covered in
magma even if ucf-10
whatever ever had an atmosphere it has
definitely boiled away by now
but then the question is what if earth
once went through some
catastrophic event and it left our
planet in the same state
boiling hot with the surface covered by
a thick layer of lava
would people manage to adapt to such
conditions and move to live
underground it sounds unbelievable
but experts are sure that with time
humans would turn into healthy and
rather happy
mole people of course life would be very
different than today
no more sunsets and sunrises no more
traveling by plane and space exploration
unless people found a way to launch a
rocket from under the ground
no more picnics in the park or
sunbathing at the seashore
people would have to build a vast
network of underground tunnels
that would connect major cities the most
likely transport in this new world
would be silent high-speed trains and
electric cars
after moving underground people would
have not only physical but also
psychological difficulties
in the beginning their new home would be
a dark barren place
without fresh air and devoid of any
color
to adapt to these tough living
conditions people would have to make
some design changes
greenhouses well-lit parts with trees
and illusions of the sky
familiar scents and sounds all this
would help people to adjust to their new
life
after living underground for several
generations people would start to look a
bit different
pale because of the lack of sunlight
with sensitive large eyes
adapted to dimmer lighting and more
developed lungs
as for the very possibility of living
underground well
hear me out you might imagine the
earth's depths as a huge massive
compressed solid rock but the reality is
different
this mass is heavily cracked water runs
down the fractures and cracks in the
planet's outer layer the crust
some of these streams reach the depth of
many miles
in other words subsurface earth could
probably support
plant and animal life if people lived
underground
they wouldn't have a shortage of fresh
water its reservoirs in the planet's
interior
contain 100 times more water than all
the lakes rivers and swamps combined
plus this water trickles through the
soil that acts as a purifier
but people would have to be super
careful to keep the sources of water
intact
otherwise the underground cities would
get flooded
and turn into giant water filled traps
it would also be a great challenge to
live without sunlight
plants can't survive without the sun's
ultraviolet light
it's absolutely necessary for
photosynthesis because sunlight is used
to get nutrients from carbon dioxide in
water
one of the byproducts of this process is
oxygen
the thing people can't live without so
no sunlight
equals no plants equals no oxygen
sunlight is also crucial for humans for
example
it helps your brain release serotonin a
hormone that boosts your mood and makes
you feel focused and calm
thanks to the ultraviolet b radiation in
the sun's rays
your skin produces vitamin d it's vital
for a strong immune system
and healthy bones teeth and muscles
[Music]
that's why people would have to find a
replacement for sunlight
luckily led lamps that can give off uv
wavelength could produce the light human
bodies and plants crave so much
in the new underground world there
wouldn't be large sunlit fields
instead there would be sprawling
greenhouses with led lights
shining from the ceiling special
machines would feed plants and crops
with recycled water
rich in nutrients in some areas located
in the narrow underground faults
people would use something like shipping
containers instead of greenhouses
these containers would be packed with
vertical rows of plants
and blue and red led bulbs
as for people they would have to follow
a vitamin d
rich diet it'd mean eating a lot of egg
yolks
cheese fish spinach soy beans and so on
if these foods weren't enough vitamin d
supplements would do the trick
without daylight people would have
problems with their circadian rhythms
that regulate sleep patterns
if you were isolated somewhere without a
glimmer of light
you would easily sleep for 48 hours at a
stretch
that's why people living under the
earth's surface would rely on artificial
lights to control their
internal clock there wouldn't be any
problems with electricity
it would be produced with the help of
the earth's inner heat
such kind of energy is called geothermal
from the greek words
geo earth and therm heat it can be
extracted from hot water and rocks
like an onion our planet is made up of
several layers
the innermost part is a solid core
around 1500 miles across
made of iron it's surrounded by a
scorching outer core
it's up to 1400 miles thick and is
mostly composed of liquid nickel and
iron
the next layer is the mantle even though
lots of people picture it as lava
the mantle is actually rock but this
rock is so
hot that it flows just like road tar
the temperature in the earth's core is
as high as 10
800 degrees fahrenheit that's almost 1
000 degrees
more than at the sun's surface the
mantle is also blistering
from 7000 degrees at the boundary with
the core
to 400 degrees in its outer parts no
wonder people wouldn't have
any difficulties with transforming all
this heat into electrical energy
but because the insides of our planet
are insanely hot
people wouldn't be able to build cities
too deep underground
all inhabitable areas would most likely
stay closer to the surface
the earth's outermost part the crust is
like the shell of a hard-boiled egg
it's broken into gigantic blocks called
tectonic plates
when two plates collide mountains get
formed and new rifts appear in the sea
floor
they have different width from 25 miles
thick beneath the continents
to five miles thick beneath the oceans
these blocks travel around
floating on the earth's mantle slowly
almost imperceptibly
it means underground cities would also
move but it would be next to impossible
to notice these movements
oh by the way people started to believe
there might be another world inside our
planet in the 17th century
the idea got the name of the hollow
earth theory
it claimed that half the planet was
taken up by its surface way
below the surface there was some empty
space
a small sun hung at the very center of
that cavity
creating a comfortable tropical
environment on the inner side of earth's
surface
one could enter the earth's interior
through one of the openings
near the south and north poles
a race of advanced humans was believed
to live inside the planet
they were peaceful and lived for
centuries well obviously
not humans they had unique technologies
for example
flying vehicles and since the climate
inside the planet was better than that
on the surface
this race was much stronger and
healthier
even though this idea sounds like
science fiction several famous
scientists supported it
some people are still sure there's
another world inside our planet
but if the earth was hollow it wouldn't
have a magnetic field
and without a magnetic field solar winds
would rid our planet of its atmosphere
in the blink of an eye
this would leave our green planet
deserted and uninhabitable
like mars is the magnetic field on our
planet exists
thanks to the processes going on and
it's very much not hollow center
liquid metals are constantly moving in
the earth's outer core
generating electric currents when the
planet rotates around its axis
the electric currents form a powerful
magnetic field
the sunward side of the magnetosphere is
as large as 10
earth's radii and the other side
stretches out in a magneto tail that
spreads for 200 times the earth's radius